---
layout: page
title: Digital Image Processing Lab CS-325
permalink: /cs325-diplab-2024-25/
---

<div style="margin: 0 8%;">

<div style="text-align:center"><h2>Digital Image Processing Lab (CS-325)</h2></div>

<p>
  <b>Course Type:</b> Core<br>
  <b>Batch:</b> 3rd Year CSE, B.Tech and Dual Degree<br>
  <b>Course Credits:</b> 01
</p>

<h3>Course Objectives</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Describe and explain basic principles of digital image processing.</li>
  <li>Design and implement algorithms that perform basic image processing (e.g., noise removal and image enhancement).</li>
  <li>Design and implement algorithms for advanced image analysis (e.g., image compression, image segmentation).</li>
  <li>Assess the performance of image processing algorithms and systems.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Pre-requisites</h3>
<p>There are no official pre-requisites for this course.</p>

<h3>Venue</h3>
<p>Programming Laboratory 4, Department of Computer Science and Engineering</p>

<h3>Time Slot</h3>
<p>
  <b>Thrusday:</b> 02:00 PM - 04:00 PM<br>
  <b>Friday:</b> 02:00 PM - 04:00 PM
</p>

<h3>List of Experiments</h3>
<ol>
  <li>
    Implement the spatial image enhancement functions on a bitmap image – <b>Mirroring (Inversion)</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement the spatial image enhancement functions on a bitmap image – <b>Rotation (Clockwise)</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement the spatial image enhancement functions on a bitmap image – <b>Enlargement (Double Size)</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement a) <b>Low Pass Filter</b> and b) <b>High Pass Filter</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement a) <b>Arithmetic Mean Filter</b> and b) <b>Geometric Mean Filter</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement <b>Smoothing and Sharpening</b> of an eight-bit color image.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement a) <b>Boundary Extraction Algorithm</b> and b) <b>Graham's Scan Algorithm</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement a) <b>Edge Detection</b> and b) <b>Line Detection</b>.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement <b>Image Segmentation</b> using the Otsu and Thresholding methods.
  </li>
  <li>
    Implement data compression using the <b>JPEG algorithm</b>.
  </li>
</ol>

<h3>Course Outcomes</h3>
<p>Upon successful completion of the course, the students will be able to:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>CO1:</b> Analyze general terminology of digital image processing.</li>
  <li><b>CO2:</b> Examine various types of images, intensity transformations, and spatial filtering.</li>
  <li><b>CO3:</b> Develop Fourier transform for image processing in the frequency domain.</li>
  <li><b>CO4:</b> Implement image processing and analysis algorithms.</li>
  <li><b>CO5:</b> Apply image processing algorithms in practical applications.</li>
</ul>

</div>
